Title: Legacy code strikes again
Topic: Context::Singleton
Author: Branislav Zahradník <barney@cpan.org>

=encoding utf8

=head1 Improving legacy code

3 o'clock. Our poor programmer sleeps dreaming hopeless dreams (having family once)

ding ding, ding ding

"Our databases are stuck again, we are not delivering, do something with it"

=head2 Problem

After quick look into production our programmer-soon-hero-again discovered that
database servers are overloaded with unused connections.

=head2 Code architecture

For every gift you have

=over

=item delivery queue database

=item accounting department database

=item legal department database

=item compliance database

=back

Location of every database for every gift's delivery region is located in central
key-value storage (at least that one has no problem at all)

Every gift processing opens all 4 connections (same even more) first it enters
workflow and passes all of them into processing functions
(they may needed them some times).

=head2 Refactoring

Solution is "easy".

Do lazy connections.

=head3 Naive solution

Connect when needed.

   sub foo {
       my $delivery_queue_db = delivery_queue_connect( @_ );
   }

   sub bar {
       if (my $delivery_queue_db = delivery_queue_connect( @_ )) {
       }
   }


Unfortunately that makes it even worse.
Same connection is required by many independent parts.

=head3 OOP refactoring

Tremendous amount of work, expected delivery 2200 - OOP noop.

=head3 Legacy solution

Use global variables localized per gift processing

   our ($delivery_queue_db, $accounting_db, ...);

   sub handle_gift {
       our ($delivery_queue_db, $accounting_db, ...);
   }

   sub foo {
       $delivery_queue_db //= delivery_queue_connect( @_ );
   }

Better ... but still lot of code to maintain, and we have well over 100 such parameters.

And now we have to extend every function with connectivity information.

Or make it another global variable.

Trembling between 100 variables, 10_000 functions and who knows how many lines of code
our programmer suddenly hears something to whisper.

... "use me, search me, use me, search me"

Is it you, Almighty CPAN? Do you have solution for me?

"take a look at Context::Singleton"

=head3 Curiosity driven development solution

   contrive 'delivery_queue_db' => (
       dep => [qw[ gift ... ]],
       as => sub { my ($gift, ...) = @_; ... },
   );

   sub foo {
       my $delivery_queue_db = deduce 'delivery_queue_db';
   }

   sub bar {
       if (try_deduce 'delivery_queue_db') {
           my $delivery_queue_db = deduce 'delivery_queue_db';
       }
   }

   sub handle_gift {
       frame {
           proclaim 'gift' => $gift;

           ...;
       }
   }

Removing 4 arguments from every important function - largest code reducing commit
in project history.

Connection is created first time it is needed and persisted till end of frame.
Our system works again, gifts are being delivered.

This approach even allowed long expected optimization (not implemented due argument hell)
so most likely system will handle even next Christmas load ...

=head1 How it works?

L<Context::Singleton> provides data control mechanism similar to code blocks
but independent on code architecture.

It provides reasonable caching as well - derived properties are stored
in same C<frame> as their requirements.

In our case, C<delivery_queue_db> will always be populated in same frame as
C<gift> value was set.

It provides you multiple ways how to populate variables based on availability
of other variables.

It is able to handle cyclic dependencies as well.

It acts like C<$_> providing "default object" where every deducible property acts like
method (with some kind of multi-dispatch) though you can compose specific classes as you
need using / providing different C<contrive> recipes.

See
L<TPC in Amsterdam presentation|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KBQ0prTu5ys>
(L<slides|https://rawgit.com/happy-barney/slides/master/2017-08-09%20-%20TPCiA%20-%20Context%20Singleton/src/tpcia-2017-08-09-context-singleton.html>)
for more.

